For my capstone exercise, I sought inspiration for ideas to narrow my search before sifting through the data, so that I could narrow down my search as much as possible and make it an easier process. In mentioning my capstone exercise to one of my colleagues, I was informed about the Blue Puttees of Newfoundland, and the major fatalities on July 1, 1916 that makes Canada’s day of independence, a day of celebration in the majority of the country, a day of mourning in the north-east. 
But I was confused and disappointed to note that the war diary records (in doing a search on the Canadian Library and Archives website) excluded these records in the year 1916; but in doing some further research, I discovered that technically, the Blue Puttees were considered a British unit during 1916. I found the data that I was looking for on the British website of National Archives.  Since our assignment focuses on the 14th Canadian General Hospital War Diaries, my first choice for topic was no longer suitable, for the purposes of this assignment. 

So I read through the 80 documents. Manually. And tried to find a pattern that may be interesting. I was particularly interested by the nursing sisters, how the numbers were reported at the end of every month. I also thought it wasn’t such a large set of data that would require extensive work to sift through. It would just require me to extract the diary pages that included the end-of-month summary. The year with the most data was 1918. So I decided to use the pages from that year. The only unavailable data was January, in which the diary logs did not include the total number of nursing sisters. 

I sifted through the available resources to outline the pages that included the total number of nursing sisters. I then converted each one individually using Tesseract on the command line. Little did I know that if I scrolled down a little in the workbook, I would learn about an automated method that would make this process much simpler; batch converting. You would think that after all this time, I would know better. 

The Tesseract conversions were not sufficient. The transcriptions were very flawed and provided little help. I decided to go through the files and outline exactly what I needed from them; the number. Then, I could make a CSV file that I could use to create a visualization…. but finding an application that could plot my data in an interactive visually pleasing way was more difficult than I had imagined. It took me a while to finally find something I was pleased with.

After experimenting with visualization tools, I managed to map out my final project, and complete my domain. 

For the second part of the exercise, I wanted to incorporate my own skills, and what I think I do best, into the final project. Because Dr. Graham suggested a video, I may have been overly ambitious in creating a long-form video with graphics I thought complemented my work. However, the night submission was due, my video editing software crashed. If only video processing platforms, like Final Cut Pro, had a text-editor equivalent… 
Luckily, I was granted an extension. I focused on making the video, but at the last render, I noticed most of my graphics were still missing; so I had to settle for what I had. 


